---
layout: home3
title: About Me
description: Nauroze's website
tags:
- Jekyll
- theme
- responsive
- blog
- template
image:
  feature: 

---
Dr. Nauroze, a Fulbright and Swedish Institute scholar, received his BSc. in Computer Engineering (honors) from University of Engineering & Technology, Taxila (Pakistan) in 2005, MSc. in Electrical Engineering (Wireless Systems) from Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) Stockholm, Sweden in 2008, MSc. and PhD in Electrical and Computer Engineering (Electromagnetics & MEMS) from Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, USA in 2018 and 2019 respectively. He also holds Management of Technology certificate from Scheller School of Business (Georgia Institute of Technology) with focus on entrepreneurship & small business development.

During Fall 2017, Dr. Nauroze worked at Qualcomm San Diego (USA) where he was part of the 5G antenna design team responsible for design, testing and realization of 5G phased array antennas for handheld devices. In 2018, he received National Science Foundation fellowship under Innovation Corps (I-Corps) program that eventually lead to establishing an Atlanta based tech startup -- Atheraxon. The focus of the company is to provide long-range (up-to 1 km) wireless RFID-based sensors for smart agriculture, asset tracking and environmental monitoring. In summer 2019, he was involved with realization of smart noise immune antennas at Amazon Lab126 (Sunnyvale, CA) to improve desence in Alexa enabled devices while reducing their cost, fabrication complexity and size. Dr. Nauroze has also held various academic positions (for more than 7 years) at some of the most prestigious universities in Pakistan including _University of Engineering & Technology (Taxila)_, _LUMS - Syed Babar Ali School of Science & Engineering (Lahore)_ and _National University of Computer & Emerging Sciences (Islamabad)_. He has authored/co-authored more than 30 scientific papers in some of the most prestigious peer-reviewed journals and conferences in the world including _Proceedings of National Academy of Sciences (PNAS)_, _IEEE Proceedings_, _IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory & Techniques_ and _IEEE International Microwave Symposium (IMS)_ to name a few. The work has also been highlighted in some of the renowned international media outlets. He often assumes the responsibility of reviewer for various prestigious journals & conferences including _Nature - Scientific reports_, _IEEE Antenna & Wireless Propagation Letters (AWPL)_, _Elsevier - Additive Manufacturing Journal_, _MDPI - Sensors_, _MDPI - Applied Sciences_, _IEEE International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation_ and _IEEE Radio & Wireless Symposium_. He is an active member of [National Incubation Center Lahore (Pakistan)](https://niclahore.lums.edu.pk/ "NIC")-- a first of its kind incubation and acceleration platform that aims to promote entrepreneurship amongst college graduates and young entrepreneurs in Pakistan for medium to small business development through public and private partnership. Currently, he is mentoring a team of promising young Lahore-based tech startup [_TutorMe_](http://www.tutorme.pk) "tutorme") that provide on-demand online tutoring to kids at home (up-to high school level) by one or more highly qualified tutors from various cities in Pakistan. The startup has produced more than 1000 jobs so far.

Dr. Nauroze's primary research interests lie at the intersection of art, deployable structures, material science and applied electromagnetics. The central theme of his research is investigation of novel techniques to realize smart tunable multilayer “_4D_” RF structures using additive manufacturing technologies such as inkjet-printing and 3D-printing, that can tune their frequency response on-demand by simply changing their shape. One of the most promising techniques for realization of such components draws inspiration from ancient Japanese art of paper folding called _origami_, which gives a systematic methodology to transform a 2D surface into a complex 3D/4D structure. This presents a paradigm shift in realization of fully printed complex, tunable & structurally robust 4D RF structures that would otherwise be impossible to realize using conventional fabrication technologies such as photolithography and milling.

#### Recent News